Introducing mentors 2026-2027 cohort (#1272)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2026-03-27-mentors-2026/index.md

</br>

## Andrea Gomez Vargas

{{< figure src = "/img/team/andrea-vargas.png" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Andrea Gomez Vargas" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Andrea Gomez Vargas </br> INDEC </br> R-Ladies, rOpenSci</strong>">}}

> [*Texto de presentación a completar por Andrea.*]

Author: ```suggestion
Soy colombiana de origen y argentina por elección, donde hoy vivo, desarrollo mi carrera y participo activamente en la comunidad de R. Soy socióloga y trabajo en la oficina nacional de estadística de Argentina, en el área de estadísticas sociales, donde analizo información sobre la población para comprender desigualdades y condiciones de vida.

La comunidad de R es mi espacio favorito para compartir conocimiento y construir colectivamente. Actualmente soy co-organizadora de [R en Buenos Aires](https://renbaires.github.io/) y [RSE Argentina](https://rse-argentina.github.io/), y además participo en iniciativas como R-Ladies, LatinR y rOpenSci, contribuyendo al fortalecimiento de redes a nivel local, regional y global,  promoviendo el aprendizaje y uso de herramientas abiertas en ciencia de datos.

Fui [Campeona en la cohorte 2023–2024](https://ropensci.org/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/), donde desarrollé [{ARcenso}, un paquete que facilita el acceso a datos censales históricos de Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). Me motiva continuar en el programa como mentora para seguir impulsando el conocimiento abierto y acompañar a otras personas en el desarrollo de proyectos con impacto en sus comunidades.
```

---
slug: "mentors-2026"
title: Nuevo equipo de mentor(a|e)s con experiencia y nuevas voces.
author:
  - Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia
  - Pablo Paccioretti
  - Erick Navarro Delgado
  - Guadalupe Pascal
  - Andrea Gomez Vargas

>   - Monika Ávila Márquez

Author: ```suggestion
  - Monika Avila Márquez
```

>   - Monika Avila Márquez

Author: ```suggestion
  - Monika Avila Marquez
```

This year's mentors come from a variety of disciplines and countries, and are active voices in the R community in Latin America and beyond. With their guidance, the new group of Champions will not only develop their projects, but also grow as leaders in open science and research software development.

## New mentors

### Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia

{{< figure src = "/img/team/alber-sanchez.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia </br> Instituto Nacional de Investigación Espacial del Brasil </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Hi! I'm Alber and I'm going to be an rOpenSci mentor this year.

I was born in Colombia, in the department of Cauca, in one of the country's most mountainous regions, called Tierradentro. 
I am a Cadastral and Geodetic Engineer from the Francisco José de Caldas District University in Colombia, where I earned a Master's in Information and Communication Sciences; 

> additionally, I completed another Master's degree in Geoinformatics at

Author: ```suggestion
additionally, I completed another Master's degree in Geoinformatics
```

</br>

### Andrea Gomez Vargas

{{< figure src = "/img/team/andrea-vargas.png" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Andrea Gomez Vargas" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Andrea Gomez Vargas </br> INDEC </br> R-Ladies, rOpenSci</strong>">}}

I am Colombian by origin and Argentinean by choice, where today I live, develop my career, and actively participate in the community of R. I am a sociologist and work in the national statistics office of Argentina, in the area of social statistics, where I analyze information about the population to understand inequalities and living conditions.

The R community is my favorite space to share knowledge and build collectively. Currently, I am co-organizer of [R in Buenos Aires](https://renbaires.github.io/) and [RSE Argentina](https://rse-argentina.github.io/), and I also participate in communities such as R-Ladies, LatinR and rOpenSci, contributing to the strengthening of networks at local, regional and global levels, promoting the learning and use of open tools in data science.

> I was a [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and to accompany other people in the development of projects with an impact on their communities.

Author: ```suggestion
I was a [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](/en/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and to accompany other people in the development of projects with an impact on their communities.
```

> I was a [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](/en/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and to accompany other people in the development of projects with an impact on their communities.

Author: ```suggestion
I was a [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](//blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and to accompany other people in the development of projects with an impact on their communities.
```

> I was a [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](https://ropensci.org/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and to accompany other people in the development of projects with an impact on their communities.

Author: ```suggestion
I was a [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and to accompany other people in the development of projects with an impact on their communities.
```

La comunidad de R es mi espacio favorito para compartir conocimiento y construir colectivamente. Actualmente soy co-organizadora de [R en Buenos Aires](https://renbaires.github.io/) y [RSE Argentina](https://rse-argentina.github.io/), y además participo en iniciativas como R-Ladies, LatinR y rOpenSci, contribuyendo al fortalecimiento de redes a nivel local, regional y global,  promoviendo el aprendizaje y uso de herramientas abiertas en ciencia de datos.

Fui [Campeona en la cohorte 2023–2024](https://ropensci.org/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/), donde desarrollé [{ARcenso}, un paquete que facilita el acceso a datos censales históricos de Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). Me motiva continuar en el programa como mentora para seguir impulsando el conocimiento abierto y acompañar a otras personas en el desarrollo de proyectos con impacto en sus comunidades.

</br>

## Monika Ávila Márquez

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/monika-avila.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Monika Ávila Márquez" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Monika Ávila Márquez </br> [Afiliación] </br> [Comunidades]</strong>">}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/monika-avila.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Monika Ávila Márquez" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Monika Ávila Márquez </br> Universidad de Ginebra </br> R-Ladies, rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> [*Texto de presentación a completar por Monika.*]

Author: ```suggestion
Hola, soy Monika, investigadora postdoctoral en estadística en la Universidad de Ginebra, donde trabajo en métodos de inferencia causal y aprendizaje automático para datos de panel. Tengo un doctorado en econometría y mi investigación se enfoca en el desarrollo de estimadores semiparamétricos que combinan técnicas de machine learning con fundamentos econométricos para la estimación de modelos de datos de panel. También trabajo en la selección de modelos de efectos mixtos y en inferencia causal con interferencia.

Soy co-organizadora del capítulo de R-Ladies Ginebra, donde me esfuerzo por construir una comunidad de práctica inclusiva para personas que usan R en la investigación.

Participo como mentora en este programa porque quiero retribuir todo lo que rOpenSci me ha dado. Esta comunidad me ha acompañado en mi desarrollo profesional —como fuente de recursos, como espacio de aprendizaje y como ejemplo de lo que significa hacer ciencia abierta con rigor y generosidad. Hoy tengo la oportunidad de ofrecer ese mismo acompañamiento a otras personas, y eso me entusiasma profundamente.
```

---
slug: mentors-2026

> title: New mentoring team with experienced mentors and new voices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: New Mentoring Team with Experienced Mentors and New Voices
```

author:
- Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia
- Pablo Paccioretti
- Erick Navarro Delgado
- Guadalupe Pascal
- Andrea Gomez Vargas
- Monika Avila Marquez
- Luis D. Verde Arregoitia
- Francisco Cardozo
- Elio Campitelli
- Pao Corrales
- Yanina Bellini Saibene

> date: '2026-03-27'

Reviewer: Sorry about the delay! Don't forget to update here and the folder name both.

tags:

> - champion program

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- champions program
```

- mentor
- community
params:
  doi: 10.59350/gdrkz-acg32

> description: Meet the new team of mentors who will accompany our champions in their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Meet the new team of mentors who will accompany our Champions in their
```

  projects for a year, sharing experience, guidance and enthusiasm.
editor:
- Steffi LaZerte
---

> We are excited to introduce the new team of mentors for the rOpenSci 2026 Champion program! This year we have ten individuals committed to open science, bringing together a rich diversity of backgrounds and perspectives. The team is made up of people joining the program for the first time, former champions who are returning as mentors, and mentors with experience from previous editions who are returning to continue to strengthen this community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are excited to introduce the new team of mentors for the rOpenSci 2026 Champions Program! This year we have ten individuals committed to open science, bringing together a rich diversity of backgrounds and perspectives. The team is made up of people joining the program for the first time, former Champions returning as mentors, and experienced mentors from previous cohorts returning to continue to strengthen this community.
```

> These people come from different disciplines and countries and are active voices in the R community in Latin America and beyond. With their guidance, the new group of Campeon(e|a)s will not only develop their projects, but also grow as leaders in open science and research software development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year's mentors come from a variety of disciplines and countries, and are active voices in the R community in Latin America and beyond. With their guidance, the new group of Champions will not only develop their projects, but also grow as leaders in open science and research software development.
```

> ## First-time members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## New mentors
```

> ## Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/alber-sanchez.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia </br> Instituto Nacional de Investigación Espacial del Brasil </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/alber-sanchez.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia </br> Instituto Nacional de Investigación Espacial del Brasil </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/alber-sanchez.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia </br> Instituto Nacional de Investigación Espacial del Brasil </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/alber-sanchez.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Alber Hamersson Sánchez Ipia </br> Instituto Nacional de Investigación Espacial del Brasil </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> Hi, I'm Alber and I'm going to be this year's rOpenSci mentor.

Reviewer: The translation of this section was really bad. I think it has to do with the fact that the original text in Spanish has line breaks at non-punctuation points. The translator clearly made up random endings to some sentences which were very weird!

I ended up copying the Spanish version into my translator and using that to figure out what it was supposed to be.

I think it would be good practice to use @maelle's aeolus package to fix line breaks before running it through the translation (`aeolus::unleash("content/blog/xxxx/index.es.md")`).

```suggestion
Hi! I'm Alber and I'm going to be an rOpenSci mentor this year.
```

I was born in Colombia, in the department of Cauca, in one of the most important regions of the country.
of the most mountainous regions of the country, called Tierradentro. I am a cadastral engineer and
Geodesist from the Universidad Distrital Francisco José de Caldas, in
Colombia, where I did a master's degree in Information Science and Geodesy.
Communications; additionally, I did another master's degree in GeoInformatics at
at the University of Münster, Germany, and then I did a Ph.
D. in Earth System Science at the National Research Institute of the
Research Institute of Brazil (INPE). Currently, I live and work in Brazil and

> as a research assistant at the same INPE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I was born in Colombia, in the department of Cauca, in one of the country's most mountainous regions, called Tierradentro. 
I am a Cadastral and Geodetic Engineer from the Francisco José de Caldas District University in Colombia, where I earned a Master's in Information and Communication Sciences; 
additionally, I completed another Master's degree in Geoinformatics at
at the University of Münster in Germany, and later earned a PhD in Earth System Science at the National Institute for Space Research (INPE) in Brazil. Currently, I live and work in Brazil and serve as a research assistant at the same INPE.
```

Part of my daily work consists of writing code in R for
process spatial data and ensure the reproducibility of the data.
results of scientific experiments, so I am familiar with R code.
with the development of R packages. Additionally, I am a co-author of the

> segmetric package, which is currently available on CRAN,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Part of my daily work involves writing R code to process spatial data and ensure the reproducibility of the scientific experiment results, so I am familiar with R package development. 
Additionally, I am a co-author of the segmetric package, which is currently available on CRAN,
```

and I maintain one of the Data Carpentry lessons,
specifically the introduction to R for geospatial data.

I am interested in sharing the knowledge and experience I have accumulated.
so far with anyone who is going to write scientific or statistical software,
particularly in Spanish. For this reason I am joining the rOpenSci, where
I hope to be part of it and help to form a community of developers.

> scientists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am interested in sharing the knowledge and experience I have accumulated so far with anyone who is going to write scientific or statistical software,
particularly in Spanish.
For this reason I am joining rOpenSci, 
where I hope to be part of and help build a community of developers.
```

</br>

</br>

> ## Pablo Paccioretti

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pablo Paccioretti
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/pablo-paccioretti.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Pablo Paccioretti" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Pablo Paccioretti </br> Universidad Nacional de Córdoba (UNC) & CONICET, Argentina </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/pablo-paccioretti.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Pablo Paccioretti" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Pablo Paccioretti </br> Universidad Nacional de Córdoba (UNC) & CONICET, Argentina </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/pablo-paccioretti.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Pablo Paccioretti" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Pablo Paccioretti </br> Universidad Nacional de Córdoba (UNC) & CONICET, Argentina </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/pablo-paccioretti.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Pablo Paccioretti" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Pablo Paccioretti </br> Universidad Nacional de Córdoba (UNC) & CONICET, Argentina </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> Hello! I am Pablo, Agricultural Engineer and PhD from the National University of Córdoba (Argentina), where I work as a researcher and teacher. Since my student years I have been interested in Statistics, which oriented my work towards data analysis. In particular, I apply and develop methodologies and software tools to analyze georeferenced data from field trials and agricultural monitoring platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hello! I am Pablo, Agricultural Engineer and PhD from the National University of Córdoba (Argentina), where I work as a researcher and teacher. Since my student years I have been interested in Statistics, which directed my work towards data analysis. In particular, I apply and develop methodologies and software tools to analyze georeferenced data from field trials and agricultural monitoring platforms.
```

> I am interested in the development of open tools for data processing and analysis. I have developed scientific software, including R packages oriented to georeferenced data analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am interested in the development of open tools for data processing and analysis. I have developed scientific software, including R packages for georeferenced data analysis.
```

> My participation in the Champions Program arises from an interest in strengthening the links between applied data analysis and programming, promoting good practices in both areas. Through this program I hope to contribute to the community by sharing experiences and resources, and at the same time learn from other professionals working in different contexts and disciplines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My participation in the Champions Program arises from an interest in strengthening the links between applied data analysis and programming, and promoting good practices in both areas. Through this program I hope to contribute to the community by sharing experiences and resources, while also learning from other professionals working in different contexts and disciplines.
```

</br>

</br>

> ## From champion(s) to mentor(s).

Reviewer: For some reason the translator has also been adding periods to headings a lot
```suggestion
## Champions to mentors
```

> ## Erick Navarro Delgado

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Erick Navarro Delgado
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/erick-navarro.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Erick Navarro Delgado" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Erick Navarro Delgado </br> The University of British Columbia </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/erick-navarro-delgado.jpg width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Erick Navarro Delgado" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Erick Navarro Delgado </br> The University of British Columbia </br> rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> Hello! My name is Erick Navarro, and I have a degree in biology from the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, and I am a PhD candidate in Bioinformatics at The University of British Columbia. I was born and raised in Mexico City, but currently live in Vancouver. My line of research is focused on developing computational tools to understand how genetic factors and environmental exposures/lived experiences act together or separately to shape our molecular landscape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hello! My name is Erick Navarro, and I have a degree in biology from the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, and I am a PhD candidate in Bioinformatics at The University of British Columbia. I was born and raised in Mexico City, but currently live in Vancouver, Canada. My line of research is focused on developing computational tools to understand how genetic factors and environmental exposures/lived experiences act together or separately to shape our molecular landscape.
```

> I am excited to participate in the rOpenSci program because I believe that open and accessible science is essential for conducting relevant research whose results benefit everyone in our society. In this program I hope to connect with new members of the open science community, share my programming skills, and drive software development in Latin America.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am excited to participate in the rOpenSci Champions Program because I believe that open and accessible science is essential for conducting relevant research whose results benefit everyone in our society. In this program I hope to connect with new members of the open science community, share my programming skills, and drive software development in Latin America.
```

</br>

> ## Guadalupe Pascal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Guadalupe Pascal
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/guadalupe-pascal.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Guadalupe Pascal" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Guadalupe Pascal </br> UNLZ-UCA-UGR </br>rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/guadalupe-pascal.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Guadalupe Pascal" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Guadalupe Pascal </br> UNLZ-UCA-UGR </br>rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> Hello, my name is Guadalupe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hello! My name is Guadalupe.
```

> I am a researcher and project coordinator in optimization and data science for decision making in social systems, with a transfeminist, open science and regional perspective. I am also associate professor of optimization and quantitative methods (UNLZ-UCA) and lecturer in data science and artificial intelligence courses (UGR). I am a Master in Decision Systems Engineering from URJC (Spain) and Industrial Engineer from UNLZ (Argentina), PhD student in Information Technology and Engineering (URJC-UNLZ), graduate in Gender and Society (UNLZ), graduate in Cognitive Neuroscience (Neurotransmitting) and graduate in Education in the Age of Artificial Intelligence (UMET). I am part of the Cátedra Abierta Latinoamericana Matilda y las mujeres en ingeniería, as founding member and referent of the Red de Género de las Facultades de Ingeniería de Argentina.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am a researcher and project coordinator in optimization and data science for decision making in social systems, with transfeminist, open science and regional perspectives. I am also an associate professor of optimization and quantitative methods (UNLZ-UCA) and professor in data science and artificial intelligence courses (UGR). I have a Master's in Decision Systems Engineering from URJC (Spain) and am an industrial engineer from UNLZ (Argentina), a PhD student in Information Technology and Engineering (URJC-UNLZ), and hold deplomas in Gender and Society (UNLZ), Cognitive Neuroscience (Neurotransmitting), and Education in the Age of Artificial Intelligence (UMET). I am part of the Matilda Latin American Open Chair and Women in Engineering, as a founding member and representative of the Gender Network of Engineering Faculties of Argentina.
```

> I am also currently part of the rOpenSci community as a champion of the 2025-2026 cohort, and I am very excited to be a mentor for this program for several reasons. On the one hand, because of the deep gratification I get from being engaged with the current cohort. From a simple point of view, the quality and rigor with which the program is implemented in all its instances have a direct impact on the quality and rigor of my own work. And from an integral point of view, this is extremely valuable and convincing evidence of the synergy of communities of practice in the development of skills and the production of situated knowledge: the rOpenSci champions program is a concrete and real example of how communities share knowledge and, fundamentally, values, perspectives and embodied learning. On the other hand, I am looking forward to the challenge of being a mentor in this program because, although it is a role that I have played in other environments, I have never done it in the development of someone else's R package. Finally, I would like to work in this role to share in community the experiences I have had as a mentor and mentee. I believe that accompanying each other in a formative and transformative process is one of the most human dimensions of this ecosystem in which we work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am also currently part of the rOpenSci community as a 2025-2026 cohort Champion, and I am very excited to be a mentor in this program for several reasons. On the one hand, I have a deep gratification from being engaged with the current cohort. From a simple point of view, the quality and rigor with which the program is implemented in all its instances have a direct impact on the quality and rigor of my own work. And from an holistic point of view, this serves as extremely valuable and compelling evidence of the synergy within communities of practice in developing skills and producing situated knowledge: the rOpenSci Champions Program is a concrete and real example of how communities share knowledge and, fundamentally, values, perspectives and embodied learning. On the other hand, I am looking forward to the challenge of being a mentor in this program because, although it is a role that I have played in other environments, I have never mentored the development of someone else's R package. Finally, I would like to work in this role to share my experiences as both a mentor and mentee with the community. I believe that accompanying each other in a formative and transformative process is one of the most human dimensions of this ecosystem in which we work.
```

</br>

> ## Andrea Gomez Vargas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Andrea Gomez Vargas
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/andrea-vargas.png" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Andrea Gomez Vargas" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Andrea Gomez Vargas </br> INDEC </br> R-Ladies, rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/andrea-vargas.png" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Andrea Gomez Vargas" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Andrea Gomez Vargas </br> INDEC </br> R-Ladies, rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

> I am Colombian by origin and Argentinean by choice, where today I live, develop my career and actively participate in the community of R. I am a sociologist and work in the national statistics office of Argentina, in the area of social statistics, where I analyze information about the population to understand inequalities and living conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am Colombian by origin and Argentinean by choice, where today I live, develop my career, and actively participate in the community of R. I am a sociologist and work in the national statistics office of Argentina, in the area of social statistics, where I analyze information about the population to understand inequalities and living conditions.
```

> The R community is my favorite space to share knowledge and build collectively. I am currently co-organizer of [R in Buenos Aires](https://renbaires.github.io/) y [CSR Argentina](https://rse-argentina.github.io/) I also participate in initiatives such as R-Ladies, LatinR and rOpenSci, contributing to the strengthening of networks at local, regional and global level, promoting the learning and use of open tools in data science.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The R community is my favorite space to share knowledge and build collectively. Currently, I am co-organizer of [R in Buenos Aires](https://renbaires.github.io/) and [RSE Argentina](https://rse-argentina.github.io/), and I also participate in communities such as R-Ladies, LatinR and rOpenSci, contributing to the strengthening of networks at local, regional and global levels, promoting the learning and use of open tools in data science.
```

> I was [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](https://ropensci.org/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina.](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and accompany other people in the development of projects with impact on their communities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I was [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort](/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and accompany other people in the development of projects with impact on their communities.
```

> I was [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](https://ropensci.org/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina.](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and accompany other people in the development of projects with impact on their communities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I was a [Champion in the 2023-2024 cohort.](https://ropensci.org/es/blog/2025/05/15/puentes-comunidades-campeones-ropensci/) where I developed [{ARcenso} a package that facilitates access to historical census data for Argentina](https://soyandrea.github.io/arcenso/). I am motivated to continue in the program as a mentor to continue promoting open knowledge and to accompany other people in the development of projects with an impact on their communities.
```

</br>

> ## Monika Avila Marquez

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Monika Avila Marquez
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/monika-avila.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Monika Ávila Márquez" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Monika Ávila Márquez </br> Universidad de Ginebra </br> R-Ladies, rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/monika-avila-marquez.jpeg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Monika Ávila Márquez" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Monika Ávila Márquez </br> Universidad de Ginebra </br> R-Ladies, rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

Hi, I am Monika, a postdoctoral researcher in statistics at the University of Geneva, where I work on causal inference and machine learning methods for panel data. I have a PhD in econometrics and my research focuses on the development of semi-parametric estimators that combine machine learning techniques with econometric foundations for estimating panel data models. I also work on mixed effects model selection and causal inference with interference.

I am co-organizer of the R-Ladies Geneva chapter, where I strive to build an inclusive community of practice for people using R in research.

> I participate as a mentor in this program because I want to give back for all that rOpenSci has given me. This community has accompanied me in my professional development - as a source of resources, as a learning space and as an example of what it means to do open science with rigor and generosity. Today I have the opportunity to offer that same support to others, and that excites me deeply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am participating as a mentor in this program because I want to give back for all that rOpenSci has given me. This community has accompanied me in my professional development - as a source of resources, as a learning space and as an example of what it means to do open science with rigor and generosity. Today I have the opportunity to offer that same support to others, and that excites me deeply.
```

</br>

> ## Returning Mentor(a|e)s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Returning mentors
```

> ## Luis D. Verde Arregoitia

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Luis D. Verde Arregoitia
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/luis-verde.jpeg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Luis D. Verde Arregoitia" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Luis D. Verde Arregoitia</br>Instituto de Ecología AC - INECOL</br>LatinR, rOpenSci, The Carpentries</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/luis-verde.jpeg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Luis D. Verde Arregoitia" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Luis D. Verde Arregoitia</br>Instituto de Ecología AC - INECOL</br>LatinR, rOpenSci, The Carpentries</strong>">}}
```

> Hi, I'm Luis D. Verde Arregoitia, Mexican living in Xalapa, Mexico. Biologist and PhD in Biological Sciences. I am a mammal specialist with experience in R programming for data analysis, visualization and statistical modeling. I am also a certified instructor and author of several packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hi, I'm Luis D. Verde Arregoitia, a Mexican living in Xalapa, Mexico. Biologist and PhD in Biological Sciences, I am a mammal specialist with experience in R programming for data analysis, visualization and statistical modeling. I am also a certified instructor and author of several packages.
```

I was a mentor in two previous cohorts of the program where I have supported software developers in Latin America and I return with much enthusiasm to this new cohort.

> ## Francisco Cardozo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Francisco Cardozo
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/francisco-cardozo.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Francisco Cardozo" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Francisco Cardozo</br>[Afiliacion universidad] </br> rOpenSci - The Carpentries</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/francisco-cardozo.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Francisco Cardozo" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Francisco Cardozo</br>[Afiliacion universidad] </br> rOpenSci - The Carpentries</strong>">}}
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
My name is Francisco Cardozo. I am originally from Colombia and came to the United States to pursue my doctoral studies. I am currently working at the University of Miami as a postdoctoral researcher at the IMPAC research center, an institution dedicated to advancing our understanding of adolescent development. I have participated in the Champions Program on several occasions. Much of my professional work has focused on research design and the application of statistical methods, particularly through the use of the R software environment.
```

> My name is Francisco Cardozo. I am originally from Colombia and came to the United States to pursue my doctoral studies. I am currently working at the University of Miami as a postdoctoral researcher at the IMPAC research center, an institution dedicated to advancing our understanding of adolescent development. I have participated in the Champions Program on several occasions. Much of my professional work has focused on research design and the application of statistical methods, particularly through the use of the R software environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My name is Francisco Cardozo. I am originally from Colombia and came to the United States to pursue my doctoral studies. I am currently working at the University of Miami as a postdoctoral researcher in the IMPAC research center, an institution dedicated to advancing our understanding of adolescent development. I have participated in the Champions Program on several occasions. Much of my professional work has focused on research design and the application of statistical methods, particularly through the use of the R software environment.
```

> ## Elio Campitelli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Elio Campitelli
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/elio-campitelli.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Elio Campitelli" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Elio Campitelli </br> Monash University - rOpenSci</strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/elio-campitelli.jpg" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Elio Campitelli" class = "pull-left" caption = "<strong>Elio Campitelli </br> Monash University - rOpenSci</strong>">}}
```

I am from Argentina but two years ago I moved to Australia because it is the only other country that starts with A and uses the same type of plug.

I am doing a postdoc at Monash University researching interactions between Antarctic sea ice and the atmosphere.

> I was already a mentor in previous editions of the program. It was a great experience that I want to repeat once again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I have been a mentor to previous cohorts of the program. It was a great experience that I want to repeat once more.
```

</br>

</br>

</br>

</br>

> </br>

Reviewer: Too much space in English version (I also think you might be able to remove one or two from the Spanish version).
```suggestion
```

> ## Pao Corrales

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pao Corrales
```

> {{< figure src = "/img/team/paola-corrales.png" width = "250" alt = "Foto de perfil de Pao Corrales" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Pao Corrales</br>Australian National University & 21st century weather CoE </br> R-Ladies, LatinR, rOpenSci, The Carpentries, RForwards </strong>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "/img/team/paola-corrales.png" width = "250" alt = "Profile photo of Pao Corrales" class = "pull-right" caption = "<strong>Pao Corrales</br>Australian National University & 21st century weather CoE </br> R-Ladies, LatinR, rOpenSci, The Carpentries, RForwards </strong>">}}
```

> I have a PhD in Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Buenos Aires (Argentina) and am currently working in Australia for the *21st Century Weather Centre* as a research software engineer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I have a PhD in Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Buenos Aires (Argentina) and am currently working in Australia at the *21st Century Weather Centre* as a research software engineer.
```

> I actively participate in R-Ladies, R Forwards, The Carpentries, LatinR and rOpenSci, learning and sharing knowledge about R in the community. In 2023 I participated in the Champions Program as a Champion, submitting the agroclimate package to the rOpenSci peer review process. I learned a lot and connected with people from all over the world. it was an excellent experience!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I actively participate in R-Ladies, R Forwards, The Carpentries, LatinR and rOpenSci, learning and sharing knowledge about R in the community. In 2023 I participated in the Champions Program as a Champion, submitting the agroclimate package to the rOpenSci peer review process. I learned a lot and connected with people from all over the world. Tt was an excellent experience!
```

I am passionate about teaching and helping other people grow in what they do, access new opportunities and develop professionally and as individuals. I am very excited to participate again this year as a mentor in the Latin America Champions Program.

> ## Milagros Mendoza

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Milagros Mendoza
```
